 and shall also publish the adverse findings of audit, if any,
along with the action taken thereof on their website. IA shall provide
the compliance audit report to its clients.
(e) IAs shall ensure compliance with the additional audit requirements
under this clause starting with audit report for financial year ending
March 31, 2025.
(xv) Risk profiling and suitability for non-individual clients
(a) Regulations 16 and 17 of the IA Regulations mandate risk profiling
and suitability for all categories of clients.
(b) In order to further enhance the risk profiling and encompass suitable
factors in case of non-individual clients, IA shall use the investment
policy as approved by board/management team of such non-
individual clients for risk profiling and suitability analysis.
(c) The discretion to share the investment policy/relevant excerpts of
the policy shall lie with the non-individual client. However, IA shall
have discretion not to onboard non-individual clients if they are
unable to do risk profiling of the non-individual client in the absence
of investment policy.
Page 21 of 94
(xvi) Requirement of website 11
In terms of Regulation 19A of IA Regulations, an investment adviser
shall maintain a functional website, which shall contain the details
as may be specified by SEBI.
(xvii) Display of details on website and in other communication channels
In order to protect the interest of investors and bring more transparency
in the functioning of the IAs, the IAs shall display the following
information prominently on its website, mobile app, printed or electronic
materials, know your client forms, client agreements and other
correspondences with the clients:
 Complete name of Investment Adviser as registered with SEBI,
 Type of Registration-Individual, Non-Individual
 Registration number, validity of registration,
 Complete address with telephone numbers,
 Contact details of the Principal Officer –contact no, email id etc.,
 Corresponding SEBI regional/local office address.
11 Existing IAs, as on January 8, 2025, shall confirm the details of its website to
IAASB latest by June 30, 2025.
Page 22 of 94
II. MEASURES TO STRENGTHEN THE CONDUCT OF INVESTMENT
ADVISERS
2. Measures to strengthen the conduct of Investment Advisers12
2.1 Restriction on free trial
As per the IA Regulations, investment advice can be given after completing
risk profiling of the client and ensuring suitability of the product. It has come
to the notice that IAs are providing advice on free trial basis without
considering risk profile of the client. Hence the IAs shall not provide free trial
for any products/services to prospective clients. Further, IAs shall not accept
part payments (where some part of the fee is paid in advance) for any
product/service.
2.2 Proper risk profiling and consent of client on risk profiling
Risk profiling of the client is essential to provide advice on suitable product
based on various criteria like income, age, securities market experience etc.
Registered IAs shall provide investment advice only after completing the
following steps: a. Complete the risk profile of the client based on information
provided by the client. b. Obtain consent of the client on completed risk
profile either through registered email or physical document.
2.3 Receiving fees though banking channel only
It is observed that the IAs are receiving advisory fee in the form of cash
deposit in their bank accounts or through payment gateways which does not
provide proper audit trail of fees received from the clients. To bring
transparency in dealing with the clients, IAs shall accept fees strictly by
account payee crossed cheques / demand draft or by way of direct credit
into their bank account through NEFT/ RTGS/IMPS/UPI. It is clarified that,
IAs shall not accept cash deposits.
12 Reference: Circular No. SEBI/HO/IMD/DF1/CIR/P/2019/169 dated December 27, 2019
Page 23 of 94
2.4 Display of complaints status on website
In order to bring more transparency and enable the investors to take
informed decision regarding availing of advisory services, IAs shall display
the following information on the homepage (without scrolling) of their
website/mobile app. The information should be displayed properly using font
size of 12 or above and made available on monthly basis (within 7 days of
end of the previous month) in a format as per Annexure C13:
13 Reference: Circular No. SEBI/HO/MIRSD/MIRSD-PoD/P/CIR/2025/80 dated June 02, 2025
Page 24 of 94
III. ADMINISTRATION AND SUPERVISION OF INVESTMENT ADVISERS
3. Framework for administration and supervision of Research Analysts and
Investment Advisers14
Background
3.1. In terms of Regulation 38A of the ‘SECC Regulations’15 notified on April 26,
2024, a recognised Stock Exchange may undertake the activities of
administration and supervision over specified intermediaries on such terms
and conditions and to such an extent as may be specified. Accordingly, Stock
Exchange shall now be recognised as RAASB16 and IAASB17 under
Regulation 14 of the ‘RA Regulations’18 and the IA Regulations for
administration and supervision of Research Analysts (‘RAs’) and Investment
Advisers (‘IAs’) respectively. The detailed framework for RAASB and IAASB
is specified in Annexure D.
3.2. As per clause (xi) of Regulation 6 of RA Regulations and clause (n) of
Regulation 6 of IA Regulations, an applicant seeking registration as RA and
IA is required to be enlisted with RAASB and IAASB respectively. The
provisions governing enlistment including enlistment of existing RAs/IAs and
of applicants whose registration applications are under process as on the
effective date of this circular are specified in the enclosed framework at
Annexure D.
Repeal and Savings with respect to the erstwhile IAASB framework
3.3. From the effective date of the provisions of clause 3, the erstwhile framework
for administration and supervision of IAs as specified through SEBI circular
number SEBI/HO/IMD/IMD-I/DOF1/P/CIR/2021/579 dated June 18, 2021
