mit a report and adverse findings, if
any
In terms of regulation 19(3) of the IA Regulations, IA is required to conduct
annual audit in respect of compliance with the IA regulations and circulars
issued thereunder from a member of Institute of Chartered Accountants of
India or Institute of Company Secretaries of India within six months from the
end of each financial year. Submit a report of the same and adverse findings
of the audit, if any, along with action taken thereof duly approved by the
individual IA/management of the non-individual IA within a period of one
month from the date of the audit report but not later than October 31st of
each year for the previous financial year.
Page 53 of 94
VIII. ANNEXURES
ANNEXURE A
TERMS AND CONDITIONS OF AGREEMENT BETWEEN IA AND THE CLIENT
Investment Adviser shall ensure that the following terms and conditions are
incorporated in the Investment Advisory Agreement:
1. Appointment of the Investment Adviser: In accordance with the applicable laws,
client hereby appoints, entirely at his / her / its risk, the Investment Adviser to
provide the required services in accordance with the terms and conditions of the
agreement as mandated under Regulation19(1)(d) of the Securities and
Exchange Board of India (Investment Advisers) Regulations, 2013.
2. The agreement shall clearly provide for in the first page:
a) the consent of the client on the following understanding:
 “I / We have read and understood the terms and conditions of
Investment Advisory services provided by the Investment Adviser along
with the fee structure and mechanism for charging and payment of fee.
 Based on our written request to the Investment Adviser, an opportunity
was provided by the Investment Adviser to ask questions and interact
with ‘person(s) associated with the investment advice’”.
b) Declaration from the Investment Adviser that:
 Investment Adviser shall neither render any investment advice nor
charge any fee until the client has signed this agreement.
 Investment Adviser shall not manage funds and securities on behalf of
the client and that it shall only receive such sums of monies from the
client as are necessary to discharge the client’s liability towards fees
owed to the Investment Adviser.
 Investment Adviser shall not, in the course of performing its services to
the client, hold out any investment advice implying any assured returns
Page 54 of 94
or minimum returns or target return or percentage accuracy or service
provision till achievement of target returns or any other nomenclature
that gives the impression to the client that the investment advice is risk-
free and/or not susceptible to market risks and or that it can generate
returns with any level of assurance.
c) Fees specified under Investment Adviser Regulations and relevant
circulars issued thereunder. (to be specifically mentioned here)
d) Fees charged to the client. (to be specifically mentioned here)
3. Scope of services: The services to be provided by the Investment Adviser to be
described in detail. However, the same shall be subject to the activities
permitted under the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Investment
Advisers) Regulations, 2013. The Investment Adviser shall act in a fiduciary
capacity towards its clients at all times.
4. Functions of the Investment Adviser: Functions, obligations, duties and
responsibilities of the Investment Adviser (including principal officer and all
persons associated with the investment advice), with specific provisions
covering, inter alia,:
a) Terms of compliance with the Securities and Exchange Board of India
(Investment Advisers) Regulations, 2013 and its amendments, rules,
circulars and notifications.
b) Compliance with the eligibility criteria as specified under the Investment
Adviser Regulations at all times.
c) Risk assessment procedure of client including their risk capacity and risk
aversion.
d) Providing reports to clients on potential and current investments.
e) Maintenance of records i.e. client-wise KYC, risk assessment, analysis
reports of investment advice and suitability, terms and conditions document,
related books of accounts and a register containing list of clients along with
Page 55 of 94
dated investment advice and its rationale in compliance with the Securities
and Exchange Board of India (Investment Advisers) Regulations, 2013.
f) Provisions regarding audit as per the Securities and Exchange Board of
India (Investment Advisers) Regulations, 2013.
g) Undertaking to abide by the Code of Conduct as specified in the Third
Schedule of the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Investment
Advisers) Regulations, 2013.
5. Investment objective and guidelines:
a) Types of securities in which investment advice would be provided, including
an undertaking from the investment adviser to recommend direct
implementation of advice i.e. through direct schemes/direct codes, and
other client specifications / restrictions on investments, if any.
b) Particulars regarding financial plan or model or strategy as agreed with the
client (based on the risk profiling conducted for the client, total AUA of the
client and time period for deployment).
c) Tax related aspects pertaining to investment advice and as applicable on
the investment adviser’s fee.
6. Risk Factors: A detailed statement of risks associated with each type of
investment covering the standard risks associated with each type of investment
in securities and investment products.
7. Validity of advisory services: Minimum period if any, and provision for renewal,
if any, along with terms and conditions for such renewal.
8. Amendments – The agreement may be amended by mutual written consent of
the parties.
9. Termination – This Agreement may be terminated under the following
circumstances, namely-
a) Voluntary/ mandatory termination by the Investment Adviser.
Page 56 of 94
b) Voluntary/ mandatory termination by the client.
c) Suspension/ Cancellation of registration of Investment Adviser by SEBI.
d) Any